5.0  update - Razor Pages Get Started Tutorial Series (#19859)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/tutorials/razor-pages/model.md

The model classes are known as POCO classes (from "**P**lain-**O**ld **C**LR **O**bjects") because they don't have any dependency on EF Core. They define the properties of the data that are stored in the database.

[View or download sample code](https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/tree/master/aspnetcore/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie50) ([how to download](xref:index#how-to-download-a-sample)).

## Add a data model

# [Visual Studio](#tab/visual-studio)

1. Right-click the **RazorPagesMovie** project > **Add** > **New Folder**. Name the folder *Models*.
1. Right-click the *Models* folder. Select **Add** > **Class**. Name the class **Movie**.
1. Add the following properties to the `Movie` class:

[!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie22/Models/Movie.cs?name=snippet1)]

The `Movie` class contains:

* The `ID` field is required by the database for the primary key.

> * `[DataType(DataType.Date)]`:  The [DataType](xref:System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations.DataTypeAttribute) attribute specifies the type of the data (Date). With this attribute:

Reviewer: When linking to an API ref page for an attribute, I always include the square braces in the link text. Developers are accustomed to seeing the square brace notation for attributes, as that's how they're used when annotating a property.

```suggestion
* `[DataType(DataType.Date)]`:  The [[DataType]](xref:System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations.DataTypeAttribute) attribute specifies the type of the data (Date). With this attribute:
```

> * `[DataType(DataType.Date)]`:  The [[DataType]](xref:System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations.DataTypeAttribute) attribute specifies the type of the data (Date). With this attribute:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `[DataType(DataType.Date)]`: The [[DataType]](xref:System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations.DataTypeAttribute) attribute specifies the type of the data (Date). With this attribute:
```

>   * The user is not required to enter time information in the date field.

Reviewer: Prefer contractions when you can use them. Acrolinx scores are often higher when using them.

```suggestion
  * The user isn't required to enter time information in the date field.
```

  * Only the date is displayed, not time information.

[DataAnnotations](/dotnet/api/system.componentmodel.dataannotations) are covered in a later tutorial.

# [Visual Studio Code](#tab/visual-studio-code)

1. Add a folder named *Models*.
1. Add a class to the *Models* folder named *Movie.cs*.

Add the following properties to the `Movie` class:

[!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie22/Models/Movie.cs?name=snippet1)]

The `Movie` class contains:

* The `ID` field is required by the database for the primary key.

> * `[DataType(DataType.Date)]`:  The [DataType](xref:System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations.DataTypeAttribute) attribute specifies the type of the data (Date). With this attribute:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `[DataType(DataType.Date)]`: The [[DataType]](xref:System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations.DataTypeAttribute) attribute specifies the type of the data (Date). With this attribute:
```

  * The user is not required to enter time information in the date field.
  * Only the date is displayed, not time information.

[DataAnnotations](/dotnet/api/system.componentmodel.dataannotations) are covered in a later tutorial.

<a name="dc"></a>

### Add NuGet packages and EF tools

[!INCLUDE[](~/includes/add-EF-NuGet-SQLite-CLI-5.md)]

### Add a database context class

> In the RazorPagesMovie project, create a new folder called *Data*.
> Add the following `RazorPagesMovieContext` class to the *Data* folder:
> 
> [!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie30/Data/RazorPagesMovieContext.cs)]
> 
> The preceding code creates a `DbSet` property for the entity set. In Entity Framework terminology, an entity set typically corresponds to a database table, and an entity corresponds to a row in the table. The code won't compile until dependencies are added in a later step.

Reviewer: These are sequential steps, so I recommend an ordered list.

```suggestion
1. In the *RazorPagesMovie* project, create a folder named *Data*.
1. In the *Data* folder, add a file named *RazorPagesMovieContext.cs* with the following code:

	[!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie30/Data/RazorPagesMovieContext.cs)]

	The preceding code creates a `DbSet` property for the entity set. In Entity Framework terminology, an entity set typically corresponds to a database table, and an entity corresponds to a row in the table. The code won't compile until dependencies are added in a later step.
```

<a name="cs"></a>

### Add a database connection string

Add a connection string to the *appsettings.json* file as shown in the following highlighted code:

[!code-json[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie30/appsettings_SQLite.json?highlight=10-12)]

<a name="reg"></a>

### Register the database context

Add the following `using` statements at the top of *Startup.cs*:

```csharp
using RazorPagesMovie.Data;
using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore;
```

> Register the database context with the [dependency injection](xref:fundamentals/dependency-injection) container in `Startup.ConfigureServices`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Register the database context with the [dependency injection](xref:fundamentals/dependency-injection) container in `Startup.ConfigureServices`:
```

[!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie30/Startup.cs?name=snippet_UseSqlite&highlight=11-12)]

# [Visual Studio for Mac](#tab/visual-studio-mac)

1. In Solution Pad, control-click the **RazorPagesMovie** project, and then select **Add** > **New Folder...**. Name the folder *Models*.
1. Control-click the *Models* folder, and then select **Add** > **New File...**.
1. In the **New File** dialog:
   1. Select **General** in the left pane.
   1. Select **Empty Class** in the center pane.
   1. Name the class **Movie** and select **New**.

1. Add the following properties to the `Movie` class:

> [!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie22/Models/Movie.cs?name=snippet1)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	[!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie22/Models/Movie.cs?name=snippet1)]
```

The `Movie` class contains:

* The `ID` field is required by the database for the primary key.

> * `[DataType(DataType.Date)]`:  The [DataType](xref:System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations.DataTypeAttribute) attribute specifies the type of the data (Date). With this attribute:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `[DataType(DataType.Date)]`: The [[DataType]](xref:System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations.DataTypeAttribute) attribute specifies the type of the data (Date). With this attribute:
```

   1. In the **Add Razor Pages using Entity Framework (CRUD)** dialog, select **Add**.

![Image from the previous instructions.](model/_static/3/arp.png)

The *appsettings.json* file is updated with the connection string used to connect to a local database.

# [Visual Studio Code](#tab/visual-studio-code)

<!--  Until https://github.com/aspnet/Scaffolding/issues/582 is fixed windows needs backslash or the namespace is namespace RazorPagesMovie.Pages_Movies rather than namespace RazorPagesMovie.Pages.Movies
-->

* Open a command window in the project directory (The directory that contains the *Program.cs*, *Startup.cs*, and *.csproj* files).

* **For Windows**: Run the following command:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet-aspnet-codegenerator razorpage -m Movie -dc RazorPagesMovieContext -udl -outDir Pages\Movies --referenceScriptLibraries
  ```

* **For macOS and Linux**: Run the following command:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet-aspnet-codegenerator razorpage -m Movie -dc RazorPagesMovieContext -udl -outDir Pages/Movies --referenceScriptLibraries
  ```

<a name="codegenerator"></a>

> The following table details the ASP.NET Core code generator parameters:

Reviewer: Per the style guide, the sentence before a table should end in a period.

```suggestion
The following table details the ASP.NET Core code generator options.
```

> | Parameter               | Description|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Option               | Description|
```

| ----------------- | ------------ |

> | -m  | The name of the model. |
> | -dc  | The `DbContext` class to use. |
> | -udl | Use the default layout. |
> | -outDir | The relative output folder path to create the views. |
> | --referenceScriptLibraries | Adds `_ValidationScriptsPartial` to Edit and Create pages |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `-m`  | The name of the model. |
| `-dc`  | The `DbContext` class to use. |
| `-udl` | Use the default layout. |
| `-outDir` | The relative output folder path to create the views. |
| `--referenceScriptLibraries` | Adds `_ValidationScriptsPartial` to Edit and Create pages |
```

> Use the `h` switch to get help on the `aspnet-codegenerator razorpage` command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `-h` option to get help on the `aspnet-codegenerator razorpage` command:
```

```dotnetcli
dotnet-aspnet-codegenerator razorpage -h
```

For more information, see [dotnet-aspnet-codegenerator](xref:fundamentals/tools/dotnet-aspnet-codegenerator).

### Use SQLite for development, SQL Server for production

> When SQLite is selected, the template generated code is ready for development. The following code shows how to inject <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting.IWebHostEnvironment> into Startup. `IWebHostEnvironment` is injected so `ConfigureServices` can use SQLite in development and SQL Server in production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When SQLite is selected, the template generated code is ready for development. The following code shows how to inject <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting.IWebHostEnvironment> into `Startup`. `IWebHostEnvironment` is injected so the app can use SQLite in development and SQL Server in production.
```

[!code-csharp[](~/includes/RP/code/StartupDevProd.cs?name=snippet&highlight=5,10,14)]

# [Visual Studio for Mac](#tab/visual-studio-mac)

1. Create a *Pages/Movies* folder:
   1. Control-click on the *Pages* folder > **Add** > **New Folder**.
   1. Name the folder *Movies*

1. Control-click on the *Pages/Movies* folder > **Add** > **New Scaffolding...**.

   ![Image from the previous instructions.](model/_static/scaMac.png)

1. In the **New Scaffolding** dialog, select **Razor Pages using Entity Framework (CRUD)** > **Next**.

   ![Image from the previous instructions.](model/_static/add_scaffoldMac.png)

1. Complete the **Add Razor Pages using Entity Framework (CRUD)** dialog:
   1. In the **DbContext Class to use:** row, name the class *RazorPagesMovie.Data.RazorPagesMovieContext*.
   1. Select **Finish**.

   ![Image from the previous instructions.](model/_static/5/arpMac.png)

The *appsettings.json* file is updated with the connection string used to connect to a local database.

### Use SQLite for development, SQL Server for production

> When SQLite is selected, the template generated code is ready for development. The following code shows how to inject <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting.IWebHostEnvironment> into Startup. `IWebHostEnvironment` is injected so `ConfigureServices` can use SQLite in development and SQL Server in production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When SQLite is selected, the template generated code is ready for development. The following code shows how to inject <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Hosting.IWebHostEnvironment> into `Startup`. `IWebHostEnvironment` is injected so the app can use SQLite in development and SQL Server in production.
```

# [Visual Studio](#tab/visual-studio)

In this section, the Package Manager Console (PMC) is used to:

* Add an initial migration.
* Update the database with the initial migration.

1. From the **Tools** menu, select **NuGet Package Manager** > **Package Manager Console**.

   ![PMC menu](model/_static/5/pmc.png)

1. In the PMC, enter the following commands:

   ```powershell
   Add-Migration InitialCreate
   Update-Database
   ```

# [Visual Studio Code / Visual Studio for Mac](#tab/visual-studio-code+visual-studio-mac)

[!INCLUDE [more information on the CLI for EF Core](~/includes/ef-cli.md)]

* Run the following .NET Core CLI commands:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet ef migrations add InitialCreate
  dotnet ef database update
  ```

The preceding commands generate the following warning: "No type was specified for the decimal column 'Price' on entity type 'Movie'. This will cause values to be silently truncated if they do not fit in the default precision and scale. Explicitly specify the SQL server column type that can accommodate all the values using 'HasColumnType()'."

> Ignore that warning, you will be shown how to fix this in a following tutorial in this series.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ignore that warning. You'll learn how to fix it in a following tutorial in this series.
```

> The migrations command generates code to create the initial database schema. The schema is based on the model specified in `DbContext`. The `InitialCreate` argument is used to name the migrations. Any name can be used, but by convention a name is selected that describes the migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `migrations` command generates code to create the initial database schema. The schema is based on the model specified in `DbContext`. The `InitialCreate` argument is used to name the migrations. Any name can be used, but by convention a name is selected that describes the migration.
```

> The `update` command runs the `Up` method in migrations that have not been applied. In this case, `update` runs the `Up` method in  *Migrations/\<time-stamp>_InitialCreate.cs* file, which creates the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `update` command runs the `Up` method in migrations that have not been applied. In this case, `update` runs the `Up` method in the *Migrations/\<time-stamp>_InitialCreate.cs* file, which creates the database.
```

---

# [Visual Studio](#tab/visual-studio)

### Examine the context registered with dependency injection

> ASP.NET Core is built with [dependency injection](xref:fundamentals/dependency-injection). Services (such as the EF Core DB context) are registered with dependency injection during application startup. Components that require these services (such as Razor Pages) are provided these services via constructor parameters. The constructor code that gets a DB context instance is shown later in the tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ASP.NET Core is built with [dependency injection](xref:fundamentals/dependency-injection). Services (such as the EF Core database context) are registered with dependency injection during application startup. Components that require these services (such as Razor Pages) are provided these services via constructor parameters. The constructor code that gets a database context instance is shown later in the tutorial.
```

> The scaffolding tool automatically created a DB context and registered it with the dependency injection container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The scaffolding tool automatically created a database context and registered it with the dependency injection container.
```

  * The user is not required to enter time information in the date field.
  * Only the date is displayed, not time information.

[DataAnnotations](xref:System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations) are covered in a later tutorial.

# [Visual Studio Code](#tab/visual-studio-code)

* Add a folder named *Models*.
* Add a class to the *Models* folder named *Movie.cs*.

Add the following properties to the `Movie` class:

[!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie22/Models/Movie.cs?name=snippet1)]

The `Movie` class contains:

* The `ID` field is required by the database for the primary key.
* `[DataType(DataType.Date)]`:  The [DataType](xref:System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations.DataTypeAttribute) attribute specifies the type of the data (Date). With this attribute:

  * The user is not required to enter time information in the date field.
  * Only the date is displayed, not time information.

[DataAnnotations](xref:System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations) are covered in a later tutorial.

<a name="dc"></a>

### Add NuGet packages and EF tools

[!INCLUDE[](~/includes/add-EF-NuGet-SQLite-CLI.md)]

### Add a database context class

> In the RazorPagesMovie project, create a new folder called *Data*. 
> Add the following `RazorPagesMovieContext` class to the *Data* folder:
> 
> [!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie30/Data/RazorPagesMovieContext.cs)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the *RazorPagesMovie* project, create a new folder named *Data*. 
1. Add the following `RazorPagesMovieContext` class to the *Data* folder:

	[!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie30/Data/RazorPagesMovieContext.cs)]
```

  * Select **Empty Class** in the center pane.
  * Name the class **Movie** and select **New**.

Add the following properties to the `Movie` class:

[!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie22/Models/Movie.cs?name=snippet1)]

The `Movie` class contains:

* The `ID` field is required by the database for the primary key.

> * `[DataType(DataType.Date)]`:  The [DataType](xref:System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations.DataTypeAttribute) attribute specifies the type of the data (Date). With this attribute:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `[DataType(DataType.Date)]`:  The [DataType](xref:System.ComponentModel.DataAnnotations.DataTypeAttribute) attribute specifies the type of the data (`Date`). With this attribute:
```

-->

* Open a command window in the project directory (The directory that contains the *Program.cs*, *Startup.cs*, and *.csproj* files).

* **For Windows**: Run the following command:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet-aspnet-codegenerator razorpage -m Movie -dc RazorPagesMovieContext -udl -outDir Pages\Movies --referenceScriptLibraries
  ```

* **For macOS and Linux**: Run the following command:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet-aspnet-codegenerator razorpage -m Movie -dc RazorPagesMovieContext -udl -outDir Pages/Movies --referenceScriptLibraries
  ```

<a name="codegenerator"></a>
The following table details the ASP.NET Core code generator parameters:

| Parameter               | Description|
| ----------------- | ------------ |

> | -m  | The name of the model. |
> | -dc  | The `DbContext` class to use. |
> | -udl | Use the default layout. |
> | -outDir | The relative output folder path to create the views. |
> | --referenceScriptLibraries | Adds `_ValidationScriptsPartial` to Edit and Create pages |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `-m`  | The name of the model. |
| `-dc`  | The `DbContext` class to use. |
| `-udl` | Use the default layout. |
| `-outDir` | The relative output folder path to create the views. |
| `--referenceScriptLibraries` | Adds `_ValidationScriptsPartial` to Edit and Create pages |
```

[!code-json[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie/appsettings_SQLite.json?highlight=8-9)]

### Add required NuGet packages

Run the following .NET Core CLI command to add SQLite and CodeGeneration.Design to the project:

```dotnetcli
dotnet add package Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.SQLite
dotnet add package Microsoft.VisualStudio.Web.CodeGeneration.Design
dotnet add package Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore.Design
```

The `Microsoft.VisualStudio.Web.CodeGeneration.Design` package is required for scaffolding.

<a name="reg"></a>

### Register the database context

Add the following `using` statements at the top of *Startup.cs*:

```csharp
using RazorPagesMovie.Models;
using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore;
```

Register the database context with the [dependency injection](xref:fundamentals/dependency-injection) container in `Startup.ConfigureServices`.

[!code-csharp[](~/tutorials/razor-pages/razor-pages-start/sample/RazorPagesMovie22/Startup.cs?name=snippet_UseSqlite&highlight=11-12)]

Build the project as a check for errors.

# [Visual Studio for Mac](#tab/visual-studio-mac)

> * In **Solution Explorer**, control-click the *RazorPagesMovie* project, and then select **Add** > **New Folder**. Name the folder *Models*.

Reviewer: Since this is VS for Mac, the window name shouldn't be Solution Explorer.

> * In Solution Explorer, control-click the **RazorPagesMovie** project, and then select **Add** > **New Folder**. Name the folder *Models*.

Reviewer: UI element names, such as Visual Studio window names, should be bolded. Italicize project names.

```suggestion
* In **Solution Explorer**, control-click the *RazorPagesMovie* project, and then select **Add** > **New Folder**. Name the folder *Models*.
```

<!--  Until https://github.com/aspnet/Scaffolding/issues/582 is fixed windows needs backslash or the namespace is namespace RazorPagesMovie.Pages_Movies rather than namespace RazorPagesMovie.Pages.Movies
-->

* Open a command window in the project directory, which contains the *Program.cs*, *Startup.cs*, and *.csproj* files.

* **For Windows**: Run the following command:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet-aspnet-codegenerator razorpage -m Movie -dc RazorPagesMovieContext -udl -outDir Pages\Movies --referenceScriptLibraries
  ```

* **For macOS and Linux**: Run the following command:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet-aspnet-codegenerator razorpage -m Movie -dc RazorPagesMovieContext -udl -outDir Pages/Movies --referenceScriptLibraries
  ```

<a name="codegenerator"></a>

> The following table details the ASP.NET Core code generator parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table details the ASP.NET Core code generator options:
```

> | Parameter               | Description|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Option | Description|
```

| ----------------- | ------------ |

> | -m  | The name of the model. |
> | -dc  | The `DbContext` class to use. |
> | -udl | Use the default layout. |
> | -outDir | The relative output folder path to create the views. |
> | --referenceScriptLibraries | Adds `_ValidationScriptsPartial` to Edit and Create pages |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `-m`  | The name of the model. |
| `-dc`  | The `DbContext` class to use. |
| `-udl` | Use the default layout. |
| `-outDir` | The relative output folder path to create the views. |
| `--referenceScriptLibraries` | Adds `_ValidationScriptsPartial` to Edit and Create pages |
```

> Use the `h` switch to get help on the `aspnet-codegenerator razorpage` command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `-h` option to get help on the `aspnet-codegenerator razorpage` command:
```
